# Hadronic-Physics-
Determination of |V_ub| from semi-leptonic B meson decays using non linear least squares optimization. Chi-square tests were employed to find the best fit curve and the optimal value of |V_ub|.

The standard model explains the elementary particles that make up the existing matter in the universe and also explains the interaction/force carriers of these elementary particles. The standard model is divided into two categories namely the fermions and the bosons. Fermions are the elementary particles that comprises of quarks and leptons that makeup all the matter while the bosons are the force carriers like gluons, photons, W bosons etc. In addition to explaining the elementary particles the standard model also explains three of the four fundamental forces, namely electromagnetism, the strong force and the weak force. Quarks do not exist freely due to the property of confinement and thus tend to combine and exist as composite particles. Similar to the electric charge the quarks possess another fundamental property called the colour charge which defines the interaction among the quarks. Both quarks and antiquarks have their own set of colours and a criterion needs to be fulfilled when these quarks interact and combine.

The criterion required for their combination is that the resulting composite particle should be colourless, examples of these composite particles are protons and neutrons. The combination of quarks is called hadrons, and based on the type of combination the hadrons are divided into two categories. The combination of a quark and antiquark pair is called a meson while the combination of three quarks is called a baryon. There is a multitude of hadrons that can be formed from the combination of quarks and in this project, we will be observing the decay of the B-meson and attempt in obtaining the parameter $V_{ub}$.

Our interest lies in charged current weak interactions which have their flavor structure encoded in the $V_\mathrm{CKM}$ matrix. $V_{ij}$, an element in the $V_\mathrm{CKM}$ matrix, connects an up-type quark of the $i$-th generation with a down-type quark of the $j$-th generation. It should be noted that, though $V_{ij}$ is represented in the standard model, it cannot be calculated using the standard model, and the only way to extract $V_{ij}$ is through certain experimental measurements.

This brings us to the motivation behind the project. Of all the elements of the $V_\mathrm{CKM}$ matrix, we specifically focus on extracting $|V_{ub}|$, primarily because it has the largest error amongst the unitarity triangle parameters. For instance, the extraction of $|V_{ub}|$ at BaBar and Belle produced the following results: $|V_{ub}|^\mathrm{BaBar}=5.26(12)(73)\times10^{-3}$ and $|V_{ub}|^\mathrm{Belle}=3.75(8)(47)\times10^{-3}$. These results were produced using purely leptonic $B$-meson decays, and as seen, the disparity between the two results is large. Another extraction method involves the charmless semileptonic $B$-meson decays. The most accurate $|V_{ub}|$ extraction utilizes decays of the form $B^0\rightarrow\pi^-l^+\nu$.
